INFRASTRUCTURE

LIBRARY
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report AUERC E RESOURCES Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Knowledge is Wisdom Library serves as a resource center and aims to develop a comprehensive collection of document’s useful for faculty and students of the institute and provides an efficient dissemination of knowledge. Library intends to incorporate the latest technology and adopt user friendly approach towards students and faculty. Library intends to offer comprehensive services related to dissemination of knowledge.It also has a Digital Library which provides online access to the e-resource of the Digital Library portals of IEEE. The Smart Campus consists of modules on acquisition, cataloguing, circulation, serials, article indexing and OPAC. Library aims at serving the academic needs of all students and faculty members. The Library maintains a separate reference collection consisting of encyclopedias, dictionaries, directories, handbooks, atlases, etc. The Reference Section facility is extended to the students, staff and faculty of the Institute. The library also supports the reprography section. Vision To be a well-equipped, technology driven and user friendly Information and Research Resource Centre Mission To keep building extensive resources which are vital for teaching learning process To provide state of the art technology for easy access and usage To create a conducive atmosphere for academic, research and development activities Staff Name Designation Qualification Dr. S. Gopalakrishnan Librarian M.Sc,M.L.I.Sc.,M.Phil.,PhD Mrs. M. Rathi Assistant Librarian M.L.I.Sc. Ms.Thenmozhi Revathi Library Assistant B.L.I.Sc. Mr. K. Mayavu Attender – Rules and Regulations Book Borrowing Eligibility Teaching Staff: 8 Books Non-Teaching Staff: 3 Books PG Students: 8 Books UG Students: 6 Books Guidelines to the users Bar-coded ID cards can be received from the Library ID cards are not transferable. Members are responsible for the books borrowed on their ID cards ID card has to be produced at the time of borrowing books The books borrowed have to be returned on the last day of the University exam in each semester. Defaulters have to pay the prescribed fine for each book Based on the semester results, Toppers in each department are given one additional book each, which can be utilized till the end of university exam in that semester Loss of ID card should be reported immediately to the Librarian in writing Signing in the Gate Register at the entrance as a token of acceptance to adhere to the rules of the library is mandatory Taking private belongings inside the library is prohibited Strict silence should be observed in the library No marking should be made in the library books Proper dress code applicable to the college should be followed If found guilty, owning responsibility for any damage caused to the books or other property, replacement has to be arranged promptly Misbehavior in the library will lead to cancellation of membership and initiation of serious disciplinary action Issue and Return of Books A student is entitled to keep a book for 14 days from the date of issue. For staff members the period of issue is one semester One renewal for a book is allowed provided there are no reservations. For renewal, members must bring the book in person Reference books, Periodicals and copies of University examination question papers will not be lent Members on receiving books shall examine them before leaving the library and report to the librarian, if any damage is noticed The Librarian may recall any book at any time even if the normal period of loan has not expired Absence from the college will not be permitted as an excuse for delay in returning the books Overdue Charges For default of return of books on the due date, a fine of Rs.1/- per day and Rs.2/- from third week onwards will be levied If a book is not returned within 28 days from the date of issue, students will not be allowed to attend the class Loss of Books Loss of books should be reported to the librarian immediately in writing and the member should either replace it with another good copy or pay twice the cost of the book in addition to overdue charges Books Reservations Members can reserve books and check periodically for their availability Facilities Books: Volumes : 27,996 Titles : 11,482 Periodicals: International : 06 National : 82 Digital Resources: Compact Disk : 2062 E-Resources : IEEE-173 Online Journals Quick Links Library-OPAC AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department


HOSTEL
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report Beyond Boundaries Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Your Second Home The students can live away from home, with all the comforts they are used to plus added conveniences. In VCET students are part of a diverse and lively community of scholars. The hostel is dedicated to providing a safe space in which one can explore all aspects of campus life, whether academic, athletic, cultural, recreational, or social. For the all round development of the students, the college provides a host of various students activities. These activities range from sports, personal-hobbies to technical interests . The students are encouraged to become the member of these bodies to help broaden their horizons . These student bodies not only help the students explore their hidden talent but also help in inculcating in the students the spirit of organization by providing them with a platform for hosting their respective club presentations. The various clubs in the premises include, Robotics club, Programming club, Application development club & Computer Services center. Hostel We have separate hostel for boys and girls. The hostel can accommodate 360 boys and 420 girls. The Mess is spacious with a dining hall and kitchen. Separate seating arrangements are made for both boys and girls, as well as for Vegetarians and Non-Vegetarians. Name Designation Contact Number Dr. P. Alli, Principal Chief Warden 9443566537 Dr. S. Gopalakrishnan M.Sc., M.L.I.Sc., M.Phil., Ph.D. Librarian Warden / Men's Hostel 7373018067 Mrs. A. Maheswari M.Sc.,M.Phil.,SET. Assistant Professor II/MATHS Warden / Ladies Hostel 9944566610 Mr. P. Radhakrishnan, Nb/SUB Ex.Army Deputy Warden / Men's Hostel 9363338971 Mr. R. Thavamani, D.CAD Deputy Warden / Men's Hostel 9566513579 Ms. N. Alima Banu, DCE Deputy Warden / Women's Hostel 9150343292 Quick Links OPAC Connect AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department


TRANSPORT
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report Beyond Boundaries Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Transport During all the working days, the transport is available on all routes covering 30km in and around Madurai During the time of semester examination, it is available on limited number of routes During coaching & special classes, model exam and university exam period buses will be operated in limited routes depending upon student’s strength Contact Transport Incharge: Mr. M. Rajachandra Sekar, AP-III/Mech, Mobile Number: +91-9944063309 Transport Depot Manager: Mr. Siva Sakthi, Mobile Number: +91-9655672040 Bus Route Route No Starting Point & Starting Time Boarding Point C1 Thirunagar (07:30AM) Thirunagar, Thirupparankundram, Palanganatham, Vasantha Nagar, Agrini, Madura College, Crime Branch and South Gate. C2 Nagamalai (07:30AM) Nagamalai, Virattipattu, H.M.S.Colony, Master Mahal, Arasaradi, Mahaboopalayam and Periyar Bus Stand. C3 Koodal Nagar (07:30AM) Koodal Nagar, Villankudi, Fatima College, Sellur, Goripalayam, Madurai G.H and Anna Bus Stand. C4 Thiruppalai (07:30AM) Oomachikulam, Yadava College, Thiruppalai, Krishna Nagar, Iyer Bungalow, Bank Colony, Reserve Line and D.R.O.Colony. C5 Avaniyapuram (07:30AM) Avaniyapuram, Villapuram, Jaihindpuram, TVS Nagar, Alagappan Nagar, Thavittu Santhai, Mahal, Munichallai and Teppakulam. C6 P&T Colony (07:30AM) Kannanenthal, P&T Colony, Valluvar Colony, Bharathi Store, M.G.Nagar, B.B.Kulam, Lady Doak College, OCPM, Tallakulam, K.K.Nagar Arch and WAKF Board. C7 Ellis Nagar (07:30AM) Ellis Nagar, PRC H.O, Ram Nagar, Chockkalainga Nagar, Arapalayam, Madura Coats, Simmakal and Goripalayam. C8 Kadachanenthal (07:30AM) Kadachanenthal, Surya Nagar, K.Pudur, Karthick Theatre, Moondru Mavadi, Surveyor Colony, Mattuthavani, Royal Enfield Showroom, Sundaram Park, Suguna Store and Ambiga Theatre. Transport Circular w.e.f 08.08.2025 onwards PARENT CONSENT LETTER - COLLEGE TRANSPORT Quick Links OPAC Connect AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department


AUDITORIUM 
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report Beyond Boundaries Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Auditorium A good auditorium must have good acoustics. There should be a speaker’s stand and a few chairs for the presiding officer and others. There should be a mike and speakers in the hall. The hall should be constructed in such a way that the speaker’s voice is clearly heard in the entire hall without strain or echoes. The acoustics and the appearance of the hall can be improved using appropriate special plaster, curtains, wall hangings and absorbent ceilings. The lighting facilities in the hall should be flexible. There should be facilities for increasing or decreasing the intensity of light and changing its color. Adequate facilities of flood light and spot light should be available. Quick Links OPAC Connect AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department


SEMINAR HALL
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report Beyond Boundaries Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Seminar Hall VCET houses three 100-150 seater air-conditioned seminar halls with video conferencing and presentation facilities. It is also equipped with excellent sound system and good interiors. We have a separate 350 seater air-conditioned placement seminar hall with state-of-the-art interior, sound system and presentation facilities to conduct training and placement activities. Events such as small meetings, symposia, seminars, conferences, guest lectures, invited talks etc., are organized here. To widen the horizon of knowledge of the students and the faculty, VCET regularly invites renowned academicians, motivational speakers, industry experts and intellectuals from different spheres for addressing the students and the teaching staff on various subjects and current industry trends. Competitions in different academic spheres and student seminars to enhance communication skills are also organized in these halls to give opportunities for students to exhibit their talents. Quick Links OPAC Connect AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department


SPORTS
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report Beyond Boundaries Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Department of Physical Education Sports and games play a vital role in student’s life and in their professional career. A student’s educational journey does not end with his / her academic achievements alone. Sports and games happen to be an inseparable part of academic curriculum to promote the sporting spirit of the student community. It is the duty of Physical Education Department to recognize and tap the hidden talents of young sports players by conducting variety of sports event. These events enable them to train and achieve more in the sports arena. Over a period of time, they become thoroughly professional Velammalian sports stars. At VCET, sports activities are given utmost importance. We provide ample opportunities for the students to take part in sports activities. Our students regularly participate in Anna University Tournaments, Association Tournaments and Invitation Tournaments and bring laurels to the institution and to themselves in the future also. Vision To help keep velammalians both physically and mentally fit, through physical education. Mission Inspiring velammalians to pursue a healthy and physically active lifestyle. To create awareness in health, wellness and physical fitness among velammalians. Faculty Name Designation Qualification Dr. M. Ponkumar Physical Director B.Sc.,B.P.Ed., M.P.Ed.,M.Phil.,PGDY., Ph.D Mr. P. Thilagar Assistant Physical Director B.P.E.S., B.P.Ed., M.P.Ed.,M.Phil Mrs. P. Malini Assistant Physical Directress B.A., B.P.Ed., M.P.Ed., PGDY Mr. K. Kottiappan Assistant Physical Director B.A., B.P.Ed., M.P.Ed. Supporting Staff Name Designation Marker Sports Council/Academy VCET Sports Council was inaugurated (2007) by Haryana Hurricane Shri.Kapil Dev the former Captain of World Cup winning cricket team. VCET Sports Academy was inaugurated by Shri K. Srikanth Chairman Selection Committee, Indian cricket team on 22nd November, 2009. Aims to identify and encourage talented sports persons with real sporting spirit to taste nectar of success in University, State and National events. Velammal Tennis Academy Annual Sports Meet 2024 - 2025 Annual Sports Meet 2023 - 2024 Annual Sports Meet 2022 - 2023 Annual Sports Meet 2021 - 2022 Annual Sports Meet 2019 - 2020 Achievements 2024 - 2025 2023 - 2024 2022 - 2023 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 Tournament Organized AU Zone Handball Men 2024 - 2025 AU Zone Ball Badminton Women 2023 - 2024 AU Zone Basketball Women 2023 - 2024 Chairman's Trophy 2022 AU Zone Basketball & Volleyball Tournament AU Zone Kabaddi Men 2020 - 2021 AU Zone Ball Badminton 2019 - 2020 AU Zone Athletic Meet 2019 - 2020 Staff Tournament Organized 2021 - 2022 VCET Sports Activities 2021-2022 8th International Yoga Day 2022 Play Field Infrastructure Quick Links OPAC Connect AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department

CAFETERIA
Velammal Nagar, Viraganoor, Madurai principal@vcet.ac.in +91 9994994991 AICTE Approval ARIIA Report NAAC NIRF Report Beyond Boundaries Grievance Redressal Menu Home Admission Online Application Courses offered Contact About us Velammal Educational Trust About VCET Chairman's Message Director's Message Principal's Message Deans Academics Undergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Research Regulations Curriculum and Syllabus Student Information System Faculty Login Student Login Parent Login Academic Calendar Students Awards and Achievements Research Research Policy Publications Funded Research Projects Patents Consultancy MoUs Placements Training and Placement Office Placed students - Appointment Orders Placement Statistics Centre of Excellence Centre For Advanced Welding Research Robotics and Automation Innovative Product Development Electrical Drive System in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Alumni About Alumni Cell Alumni Cell Members Programs Organized Annual Alumni Meet Department level Alumni Interaction CGC About Career Guidance Cell Career Guidance Cell Members Programme Organized Infrastructure Library Hostel Transport Auditorium Seminar Hall Sports Cafeteria Health Centre Outstanding Facilities Cafeteria Canteen is a place where students of all courses interact with each other and enjoy the good food. Our modern well-furnished cafeteria, built in an area of 390sq.m is a perfect place for a snack break. Our cafeteria offers a wide range of hot and cold options for breakfast, lunch and everything in-between. It also offers delicious munchies, ice creams, soft drinks at an affordable price. We at VCET understand the importance of good health and its role in building a healthy mind. Therefore, our well designed hygienic canteen supplies quality snacks and eatables. Quick Links OPAC Connect AICTE Approval AICTE Feedback Facility NAAC NIRF ARIIA Transport HR Policy Mandatory Disclosure Grievance Redressal Anti Ragging Internal Complaints Committee VCET Innovation and Startup Policy Contact Us Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai to Rameshwaram Highway, Viraganoor,Madurai-625 009. Mobile: +91-9994994991 e-Mail: principal@vcet.ac.in Velammal College of Engineering and Technology © 2022 | Designed and Developed by IT Department